Welcome to the Data Science Hangout.
If you're joining for the first time, I'm Rachel.
It's great to meet you.
This is your first Hangout today.
This is an open space for the whole data science community to connect and chat
about data science leadership and questions you're facing and really just what's
going on in the world of data science.
The sessions are recorded and shared to YouTube as well, um, as the
RStudio Data Science Hangout site.
So you can always go back and rewatch them and find helpful resources.
We do also have a LinkedIn group too, for the Hangout.
So if you ever want to continue a certain discussion or meet people there or see a
brief summary of a topic you brought up each week, you can do so, um, someone
from the team can share that in the chat now, otherwise I'll share it in just a
moment, but I do want to just say, um, I can't believe it's almost July and
wanted to let everyone know that we will be taking a bit of a break from the
Hangouts in July, just in July only, um, as we prepare for the RStudio
conference and some big announcements.
Um, but we'll be back on Thursday, August 4th as well.
I realized I hadn't been mentioning that to people, so just want to let everybody
know, um, anyways, we are excited to see all here and always want to create
spaces where everybody can participate.
So as you know, the Hangouts are all audience led.
So there's three ways that you can ask questions today.
You can jump in by raising your hand on Zoom.
You can put questions in the Zoom chat and just put a little star next to your
question, if you want me to read it out loud instead, or else I could
just call on you to jump in.
Um, and then lastly, we also have a Slido link where you can ask questions
anonymously too, um, and our team will share that in the chat in just a second
here, love to reiterate, reiterate here.
We love to hear from everyone, no matter your level of experience
or area of work or industry.
Um, but with all of that, welcome.
I'm excited to be joined by my co-host for today, Alec Campanini and Alec, you
have a very long title here, so hopefully I don't mess it up, but Senior Manager,
um, Omni Merch Ops Innovation, Assortment and Space Analytics at Walmart.
So you're definitely going to have to describe that for us too, but Alec, I'd
love to kick it off with having you introduce yourself and share a little
bit about the work that you do.
Okay.
Hey everybody.
I'm Alec Campanini.
Um, like she said, I'm, I'm working with Walmart.
I've been at the store side of Walmart for like three years, uh, back when I was
in college, uh, went off, did some mastering stuff, and then now I'm back
at Walmart for the past, I think two and a half years now, um, I'm working inside
of the merchandising area specifically.
I'm looking at optimizing our assortment and making really large bulk changes
and strategy for our assortment.
Um, this tends to happen, uh, it's Omnichannel, so every single channel
you can think of, even drone delivery right now, uh, we've started trying
to figure out how we can place assortment in certain areas, what all's
available, what's going to make the most money, et cetera, um, as well as like
this digs into like supplier.
So supply chain comes into it.
Um, but most of it is like it's strategy based around innovation, merch products.
We build a lot of products for 3,500 merchants, uh, in order to get those
bulk changes made, um, as well as reviewed.
Um, and so we have a really big kind of like feedback community for
the type of work that I do.
So.
Great.
Thank you.
Um, and I'd love to kick off with this question here.
Um, but what's something that you're most excited about in
data science in the year ahead?
Um, I've really enjoyed the flexibility of things that are coming out.
Um, I mean, our studio has done a good job of enabling a lot
of that within sort of Walmart.
Uh, so we actually have the, uh, the team suite.
So we, we utilize that to make sure that we can actually share a lot of our stuff
across, um, different teams, uh, as well as have an easy, you know, one-for-one
deployment method, uh, for all of our shiny apps.
Um, so I guess in like the next year, what I'd really like to see, uh, at
least at Walmart anyways, it's just how my mind's turning is, um, our slot is
flexibility around data engineering, especially as we scale and change
channels, uh, as well as being able to actually model that in a meaningful way.
Um, so it's, for us, it's gonna be flexibility in the next year or two.
So awesome.
I know I see quite a bit on LinkedIn about some of the shiny apps that you create at
Walmart and would love to just hear a little bit about some of those and how
they help impact the business just while we're waiting for some questions to
come in from everyone else too.
Yeah.
I think this will probably spur some questions, uh, especially since it
has to deal with other retailers.
Um, my main scope right now is called rest of market.
And so our, what we're trying to do is find out every item that exists in the
rest of the market, no matter if it's in the store, online, through TikTok
trends, social listening, whatever it may be.
And, um, it's really cool that I got it started out as my first project
because the scope is pretty unlimited.
Um, cause you've got like Walmart as its business, and then I get to take on like
rest of market as kind of its own business.
Um, so today I own a shiny application that is pushed to all merchandising.
Um, we have, I think a little bit over 12,000 uses on it today, um, across
all of the merchants and merch ops.
Um, and what it does is, um, starting with e-comm, which our first version,
uh, was insights on about 28 to 30 different retailers in the e-commerce space.
You can guess as to who those may be.
Um, with many items at the item level, um, a lot of different contracted data
sets that are coming in, uh, so they all come in different grains and forms.
Uh, and then the biggest thing is just to normalize all of
those to the Walmart hierarchy.
So we've got to have some way to tell a merchant that something from the rest of
the market on a different website makes sense for them to look at.
Uh, so we, we do a lot of data normalization.
Uh, we do a lot of trend analytics for them.
Uh, and then a lot of that afterwards comes to how much can we scrape
and acquire, uh, to enhance our data.
So we have a lot of, um, we have a lot of market share data, a lot of sales
information, um, pricing over time.
Um, and then a lot of the bestseller trends that are popping up.
Um, so we, we do a lot of things to find out where I guess merchants would be
lacking inside of a brand, especially national brands, and then we allow a
workflow to quickly identify, oh, we're only at 60% of this brand, uh, drill in.
What are the top items being sold?
Do I want stable items?
Do I want trending items?
Do I want something else that I've never seen before?
Or is it just that I have the item and I just need to increase, you
know, what I'm giving to the customer?
Do I need to lower my price?
Is it shipping too slow for somebody?
Did we mess up the website?
Amazon maybe has 10 images and we have five for whatever reason.
Um, so just, it just keeps going and going.
Uh, but that's my first shiny application.
It's, it's been a lot for about a year and a half now.
That's cool.
What's an example of something that's like a TikTok trend that influenced a brand?
So, so TikTok is pretty new for us.
We actually haven't engineered that fully into the shiny app today.
That's, that's social listening that we're wanting to, uh, to bring in.
Um, we're thinking about how we want to utilize that.
It's, it's obviously gonna be based on hashtags that are
trending throughout wherever.
But we have to try to parse out a lot of that for what is product based versus
just what else is actually just floating out inside of TikTok.
Um, but I think the coolest trend is, uh, on Father's Day.
Uh, we released a line of new golf tech products.
Um, and all of that actually did come from the, uh, from my app.
So we had a lot of the sports and fitness merchants, uh, find out that
online we actually sell a lot more technology rather than golf balls.
So these are merchants that used to be in the store.
They're setting a mod once a year.
We're always going to have golf balls on the shelf because we
sell all of them all the time.
It's a physical asset, but they get into the e-commerce space as a new
merchant for like Omni and didn't think that it's the same type of trend.
They find a different trend inside of our app.
And then I think we, they launched a whole slew of things this past week.
So that was really cool.
That's great.
Thanks, Alec.
Um, Libby, I see you asked a question in the chat.
Do you want to jump in?
Sure.
I'll even turn on my video.
Um, yeah, I was wondering if when you're looking at the value of a product
within a SKU catalog for a brand, like do you incorporate reviews, the
number of reviews, the quality of reviews, the percentage rating, stuff
like that, when you're trying to figure out what's worth pulling over?
Yeah.
Sadly, we haven't gotten into like sentiment analysis on those reviews.
We're just cause of the scale of it online.
Um, I think Amazon sells like 800 million products.
And so we're just looking to acquire those in the first place,
much less the reviews.
Um, but we do bring in counts of ratings and reviews.
Um, and we try to track those over time.
Um, so it depends on, we, we really scrape like what we find in
the market is the most important.
So we do have sales performance on a lot of these items for the past four years.
Um, some of that's acquired, some of that's paid for.
Um, but we, we try to track as much as we can for those that trend.
So.
Awesome.
Thank you.
Thanks for the harsh.
I see you have your hand raised.
Yeah.
Hey, hello everyone.
Actually, I wanted to ask like these days in the Walmart, uh, people in Amazon
do false reviews also like they did to the paid reviews.
So how do you segregate between the paid reviews and the genuine reviews
you are getting from the customer?
Like what is your strategies in that?
Yeah, that's the, um, well, that's one thing we haven't talked about.
There's the sentiment analysis, but that does affect our counts.
Um, another thing that affects counts just like that, uh,
is duplicate listings online.
Um, so Walmart, uh, does a bad job of taking marketplace sellers and making
them put it all underneath one item space.
And so we even have duplicate listings of like how big our assortment is.
Uh, same thing happens on Amazon.
Same thing happens on reviews, ratings counts.
Um, and that's, that's kind of the cool part of rest of marketing.
Part of rest of market is that it's not even our internal data and we have to
figure out some way to de-duplicate it.
Um, so we have different methods for doing that internally and then we have
different methods for doing that externally.
Um, a lot of it is kind of based on different data sets we have.
So if we see that one data set is an outlier for a brand's depth for Amazon.
Uh, then we may treat the other three that we have engineered
as more of the source of truth.
Um, but it just becomes waiting at that point.
We also take it, like I said, a lot of merchant feedback.
So if we feel like, uh, there are misguided, um, outputs being shown to a
merchant, we allow them to edit a category.
If we predicted it to their space and it's incorrect, we allow them to edit
like items that we have mapped for it, which helps us understand if
we're meeting customer needs.
Uh, almost all of these metrics are edits and we'll save and push it back.
Okay.
Thank you.
I think 800 million products is really hard to imagine.
And I'm curious, how do you handle all that data or what
does that look like at Walmart?
Uh, it comes down to prioritization.
So the, like I said, there's, there's really only probably five to 10 million
that we actually care about at Amazon.
Um, same thing happens at Walmart.
We, we have 250 million, I think, and the, you don't even sell all of those.
So we're really looking for sales samples and paid things within the market.
Uh, we'll, we'll actually have a receipt based samples come in from
different households across the market.
We'll pay for that, figure out what's actually making sense.
We may miss some items that way, but we typically know what's in
the head and the torso pretty well.
Um, it doesn't tell us like total market value of an item.
And that's where we start doing rest of market estimates at the item level.
Uh, we'll, we'll predict what the market demand is, and then we're
working on predicting what the Walmart demand is, even if, you know, it's
not always the same, not the same customer base, so I see a few people
ask the question on Fido anonymously.
And one was, has Walmart's relatively new subscription
service impacted your work?
Yes.
So, uh, we actually break out sales samples for first party and third party
subscription and non-subscription sales.
And so this, this helps mainly inside of the pets area.
Uh, obviously there's a lot of, a lot of different models that you can offer
for, uh, renewable things for life.
So that makes sense.
Um, but yeah, there's, we're, we're trying to identify, uh, trending
subscriptions, downtrending subscriptions, um, most paid for most
stable over time, anything you can think of about subscriptions.
So, um, another thing that plays into that just to piggyback off of it is services.
Um, so Amazon offers a lot of installation services and stuff, right?
Whenever you buy a product, Walmart has a few of those, but we're also trying
to match and compete on services.
Interesting.
Um, Seth, I see you put a question in the chat.
Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, sure.
Hello everybody.
Long time no see.
Um, Alec, thanks for, uh, for taking the time.
So, uh, you mentioned kind of like these dual listings and things like that.
And I'm sure all of us have experienced this thing where, especially when you're
trying to do analysis on like products or whatever, there's a lot of coordination
that is required from like, let's say the front, front end development or back
end development that makes maybe the data ingestion of data analysis much easier.
And I'm wondering if communication on like, Hey, like maybe if we didn't orient
these things to be two items that would make our lives a little bit easier and
kind of improve our, our analytical capabilities, does that kind of
communication exist?
Yeah, it's starting to, it's starting up a little bit more nowadays.
Um, we have good documentation on the approaches that we've tried, um, with
deduplication.
Um, so the, the issue with Walmart is always scale and the different types
of businesses within that scale, like on the store side, you wish everything
would operate sort of the same.
Like if you're, if you're Ace Hardware, you know, you've got hardware, but
we've got hardware and pets and everything all inside the same place.
And so typically for, um, you know, some type of flexible approach, deciles
are, are typically good or percentiles, um, scrape everything out from the
bottom one percentile, and that's typically your outliers.
Uh, but to actually, I think, move that throughout the organization, you know,
we're doing this for ourselves right now at Sortment.
Uh, my now strategy that this has been used so much, and there's the business
impact already there is we push our datasets up.
Um, we're wanting to actually get the rest of market items deep duplicated
into our catalog, like our catalog.
And so even if we have, uh, unmanaged records that aren't fully complete, like
we don't have a unique identifier for it, or we're still missing size or dimensions.
Um, we'll have a record there, but it'll be a much quicker setup the next time
the item actually comes up for the merchant to put in our space.
Um, that'll, that should help with some deduplication.
There's still a lot of data science and guessing that goes on behind the
scenes, but, uh, we're, we're trying to make sure that it gets standardized for
everybody.
Cool.
Thanks for that answer.
Yeah.
I see someone else had asked on Slido going back to, and you're
talking about tracking prices.
How do you actually track prices on Amazon or from other competitors?
Yeah, there's, there's a lot of different ways.
Um, there's batch loads that we'll get monthly, like I said, from different
data contracts, um, so we can actually see the receipt based price.
So the thing that somebody actually paid for at that time, um, you won't know
daily that's a price over the month.
And so we do have to take stats from it either, uh, normally medium, just in
case pricing goes wonky on something.
Um, so we get some type of batch load.
It's a little bit lagged, but we also do a lot of the, um, you
know, Amazon posts, their bestsellers.
Um, we post our bestsellers.
Uh, you really just want to focus in on like what the top items are trending
on their page at that time.
Um, and they refresh it.
So, I mean, we ref, we, we refresh hours, I think two to three times a day.
They do theirs three to four times a day, I believe.
And you can consistently, if it's still on that same list, check pricing
as it goes throughout the day.
Um, one issue is zip code related pricing.
Um, so if you go to Amazon, I can go check it now.
One of y'all can go check it.
We see different pricing for shipping or whatever it may be different ship speed.
Um, and that's a whole different ballgame that we still have to get into.
Um, how could we, uh, get all this data, uh, not even just at scale of 800
million, but 800 million by zip code in region.
Um, and that's, that's something that I actually haven't even dug into yet.
So.
That's cool.
When you say like the receipt scans, is that sometimes like those apps that give
you like money back for scanning your receipt or is that actually, yeah, I
actually don't know the whole process for it.
I don't, I don't think our vendors are going to let us know
the complete story behind it.
Um, but in essence, all I really know is that there's millions of households.
It's not really just like people based.
It's a household based.
Um, and they, they would pay them X amount of money to do this service
for them for a certain amount of time.
So they'll sign a contract to be part of the household review.
Um, I think for a year or two years, whatever it may be.
Um, and that's just so that we keep it a steady sample, customer shoppers
and insights kind of stay, stay relatively the same, it's spread out
everywhere, where we want inside of the region, and then we just kind
of aggregate and predict from there.
Cool.
Thank you.
Um, Libby, I see you had another question in the chat.
I'm going to jump in.
Sure.
Yeah.
It looks like Brittany and I have a similar question.
Um, when you are looking at all market stuff, I feel like that's a really big
struggle, you have to use external data and it's something that everybody who
has a product or service in a market deals with, so is there a vetting process
that you go through to like vet external data, do you get a sample of it and get
to use it and then decide whether or not you want to purchase it, do you validate
reliability of the data, stuff like that?
So luckily enough, we actually have another team that takes on a lot of
our data acquisition, uh, as a service.
Um, so they'll, y'all have heard of Nielsen, um, you've heard of probably
1010 or NPD or all of these main data contractors.
Um, some of those are, are really easy and reliable, uh, like Nielsen's, you
kind of vetted throughout the market already, uh, but once it gets into
smaller players, we actually do have a team that goes out, um, since we
already have three to four data sources already standardized into the Walmart
hierarchy, we can kind of guess numbers.
You get a new one, you check it up against those numbers.
Hey, something was wonky.
Go back and forth between who the vendor is, see what the differences are.
Maybe their assumptions make sense.
And there's a reason why something doesn't make like line up perfectly.
Um, after that, we just kind of use it.
Um, you, you just have to see with a merchant, um, if there's
any issues for their area.
Are they missing data?
Does it seem like something is being assigned incorrectly?
Um, it's a long process.
Um, but luckily since we do have a team that does that before it reaches me, um,
I can at least use it in the terms that I know that merchants are happy with it.
So do you have, do you have any as a follow-up, do you have any scope
into like ROI for those purchases?
Like, is that something that you guys have to deliver on?
Like we bought all this external data.
Here's what we did with it and here's why it was worth it.
Oh, for sure.
Yeah.
Um, that's, that's been an ongoing conversation the moment
I said the word shiny app.
Um, so because whenever, what happened first is, um, there's a, there's a guy
named Peter cross, um, he's, he's left Walmart, but he was great.
He stood up our entire infrastructure for our studio within Walmart.
And luckily enough, I got to piggyback on that, even though I wasn't on his team.
Um, so he gave me a license.
I got to deploy some of my work, started doing some testing and as
a POC put rest of market out there.
Um, and then whenever it was announced that Peter was leaving, no, our studio
was, uh, kind of like falling by the wayside for any of the teams.
So we picked it up.
The moment I said I needed to pick it up for funding was the moment we
needed to ROI analysis and figure out what it was actually going to do.
And even at that time, that was only when we used one data set for e-commerce.
Um, so yeah, I wanted to make sure that people knew that there was impact there.
And so every, I think it's about every three months now we bring all the
merchants that have had success stories and they demo their success
stories for the other merchants.
Uh, so this will go out to the VPs of their leadership.
There's thousands of people on the call, um, or at least thousands
in private, which we see who shows up.
Uh, but the, the merchants will get information from other merchants that
makes them trust the source more.
Um, and maybe dig into their e-commerce space a little bit more.
Uh, but my next release will be a lot larger.
So, um, we're thinking as we add things on, we want to keep
showing them what the benefit is.
Um, it's a little bit hard to track perfectly in numbers
because there's a lot going on.
Like it's not, it's not even just about the business impact.
It's really that we're also doing all these standardization and modeling
practices that were never there in the first place.
Um, it's, so it's, it's valuing each piece of that.
So that's awesome.
Thank you so much for that.
Brittany, I know you had a similar question, so I wanted to see if you had
anything else you want to add to that too.
Yeah, no, I think that's a good point.
I guess maybe something else to add there is, um, because you have another team
that does a lot of that data procurement, um, do you ever work cross-functionally
with them to like help them in learning what kinds of data sets you need?
What like specifically you're using it for and sort of helping them and making
sure that they're procuring the right types of data?
Yes.
Yeah.
Um, so they actually, their use case originally was more of a data
their use case originally was market share data.
So they wanted to understand Walmart versus Amazon.
What's the market share just in general, and then be able to break it out by, um,
our divisions and then break it out by department.
And so they're actually starting at top level, acquire as much data as possible,
model it, model it out, make sure financially it's something that can, they
can give to leadership for, for true insights.
And then they just keep breaking down.
I started the opposite way.
I started with all those same data sets, but at the item level, because we're an
assortment, we predict out to the certain departments, uh, roll up and then
eventually we're working on meshing all of our stuff together.
So it should be a full up and down roll up through everything.
Um, so it's, we're making sure that one, our modeling stuff stays in place
correctly, because if we predict items in one area and they're saying it goes
to a whole different area, we're not going to show the same numbers.
Um, so a lot of that does go on.
It's like, it's more like a monthly cadence, uh, but we
make sure that we're aligned.
Awesome.
When you were talking about like going through that process of showing the ROI
of some of the shiny apps, I'd love to like hear how you go through that process.
Cause sometimes I like, I find it hard to take the time to step back away from
like your everyday work to say like, Hey, this is the ROI of all of my projects.
Yeah.
How do I say that?
So the, it, for me, it's a little bit easier just to sit down with my boss since
he's been in the business a lot longer than I have, and he understands where
things are going to fit eventually.
So, uh, when rest of market came to me, I assumed that it was just a POC.
We're putting a dashboard up one data set.
We've never had e-commerce sales shown to somebody be done with it.
Um, but he understands the next six or seven steps that could happen.
Uh, so I'll normally just get on a call with him, um, ask him, you know,
vague topic, what I'm thinking, maybe give him two or three bullet points.
And then we go through an edit, uh, list out everything that we can
always find either data process, data engineering insights or,
uh, value wise, uh, for the merchant.
Um, and then after that, we, it's, it's just like a one-time thing.
We don't, we don't consistently update it.
It really is ad hoc at this point.
Um, but we're trying to get to more of a framework for analyzing that later on.
So I know I've, I've asked you, I've asked some people on LinkedIn.
That was a LinkedIn post everybody, by the way, I think I sent it to
the, our statistical, uh, LinkedIn group.
Um, but yeah, it's, it's, it's pretty difficult whenever you don't know
exactly what all has been launched either from a merchant, uh, just cause
our systems aren't perfectly tied.
So.
Yeah, that's, that's a great point.
Just reminding me of that LinkedIn post too.
And, um, maybe that'd be something good to open up to the audience here too, but I
know that post was around, like, how do you show the value of shiny over business
intelligence tools as well, when your team is already paying for multiple things?
Um, so yeah, I'd love to hear like what you learned through that, but also open
it up to other people who have maybe had a similar conversation.
Uh, yeah, at least yes.
If anybody has anything step in, but at least in my experience
with the BI tool, a conversation.
Um, we've at least made our, our point.
On maybe eight to 10 things about why we would have to pick
shiny over a different BI tool.
Um, the first one really is just that we have a lot of people
on our team that use R.
So the skillsets there, uh, that's a pretty good use case.
Uh, the second one is just that, uh, drag and drop is pretty hard to
document, um, steps between each other.
Uh, so if something breaks and somebody else needs to fix your visualization,
you can't just read through some GG plot steps or plot or whatever
it may be and recreate it.
Um, you're typically Googling in a forum somewhere and then hoping that somebody
put a screenshot of every button they clicked.
So, um, or video or something.
So it's, that's, that's a little bit more difficult.
And then number three, our scale, uh, most data models, uh, especially
like power BI data models don't typically handle our scale.
Um, I know there's some data warehouse and data mark stuff that
they're doing recently, haven't checked it out yet.
Uh, Tableau, um, you know, big, it can connect to big query or
something, which is cool.
Uh, but the processing and then Tableau data extracts are just, it's just
not enough, uh, for the amount of assortment we deal with.
So, um, I mean, when we think about historical assortment at Walmart, it's
250 million today for, if you need two years of analysis, you know, by day.
And that's just for the items you haven't joined in performance metrics yet.
So, um, typically we have to deal with, with staging batch analysis, put
inside a big query, expose it in shiny.
And then go forward.
So.
Cool.
Thank you.
If, if other people have thoughts to, or things to share, feel
free to raise your hand here.
Yes.
That's just a little bit of data.
Yeah.
Millions and millions.
I guess, uh, there's no question.
Um, what are, I mean, this was great in terms of understanding a lot of the
like process of like how Walmart works, but what are the things, I guess, that
you guys are looking towards in the future to kind of, that excites you?
Um, both, both technically or otherwise.
Yeah.
So the, um, I think the social listening piece is going to be really cool.
Um, uh, I'd like to, I'd like to get into more data sources.
So one thing that we've learned is that, you know, Google search and Google
trends are normally a, a pre indicator of sales inside of the market.
Um, it's, it's a really good indicator.
Um, and so the first thing that we've done is like at a brand level, um, you
can drill in from our app into Google trends.
And so you can click up to five trends.
That's their limitation, but it allows you to find a lot of the search results
that are trending in the market, the geography of that, and then what the
top results are over time, as well as like, you know, check brands just against
each other.
Um, and so that's, that was impactful already.
Um, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and,
and there was already enough for a merchant because they could see, Oh,
Timberland trending up what's going on.
And there was some collaboration of Timberland and some designer.
Uh, and then maybe they want to try to get in on marketing on
that or whatever it may be.
Um, and so that was, that was full enough much less getting into, like.
Uh, TikTok, uh, Like To Know It, um, all these different apps that nobody's
really like we've never sourced it at Walmart before.
Um, or if we have, it's for specific one-off things that we may do in marketing.
And so now this is, this is really our group tie-ins marketing.
Um, and I don't know, that's, that's, we're here kind of siloed.
We're giving everybody cool stuff, but I want to be with catalog marketing,
data science, data engineering, and then push it all back out.
Um, so that our systems can utilize a little bit more.
I think that's, that's probably the biggest excitement at Walmart right now.
That's amazing.
Um, I see there's a question on slide 02 that was, how are you able to
connect the shiny apps in R with your internal database information systems?
Yeah.
So I, uh, I just use, um, ODBC drivers, uh, through our studio.
They have professional drivers for big query.
Um, they don't have one, I think for Presto, which is where we have a lot of
our layers kind of thrown out there from GCP.
Um, so we, we have our own Presto, uh, connector that we use.
I think there's the R Presto, uh, shiny power R package that
you can use for connecting.
Um, but most of it's ODBC.
We used to use JDBC, but we recently converted over.
Um, and then I'll use like the database, like pool package to make sure that
connection stay on and revolving, uh, through big query, cause there is time
out stuff, um, but yeah, I'll just connect through big query in that.
I'll use DB plier, uh, either inside of the backend of shiny or for development
of a SQL query, um, just to get a flow down and then me and my coworker
usually work together if we need to use like Python's API to optimize it.
Great.
Um, I was just curious.
So I know this is a tool that you provide to the merchants as well.
Is this something that's like greatly improved their experience of working
with Walmart, or I'm just trying to like put myself in the shoes
of who's using the shiny app.
Honestly, I think, I think at this point, it doesn't help them process wise,
but that's, that's the whole point about connecting to these systems is to
actually improve their processes with the data now, now that we actually
know what they need and what, what insights they're going for and where
else we can build, um, right now it's, it's honestly probably more work.
Because they, they come to our app, they find insights and then they've got to
actually execute and do something to it.
Um, and in the e-commerce space, that's typically always at all, unless
we're putting aside of something specific in our fulfillment center.
Um, so it's, it's probably harder actually for them right now because
they, they need to drill in to understand what their gap is.
Um, there's predictions to their category, so it could be incorrect.
So they're giving us feedback.
Um, we have items mapped to it that are anywhere from 90 to a hundred percent,
uh, similar, but that doesn't mean it's always right.
It could be a short item description or something.
And so we could be giving them a little bit of false information
they have to sift through.
Um, so yeah, I mean, it's, it's four to five, maybe six more steps than they're
actually used to for the e-commerce space, but it's data they've never had
before ever, and so it kind of outweighs it currently, but that's why we really
need to push to getting this, this data inside of our item catalog so that when
they come in shiny, give it, we can recommend, Hey, give us two things and
we can set up the top item in your market with the supplier and that's it.
Instead of, Oh, here you found your item, go to this tool, set it up in the item
process, go to this tool, add the supplier to our area, go to this
tool, order some inventory for it.
Now it's, it's becoming a little bit mundane.
So.
Thank you.
I know we have people on the data science hangout from so many different
like sizes of companies and different industries, and I was just curious,
like, what's the biggest challenge that you've faced working at a company
as large as Walmart and, and how do you overcome that?
Uh, there's a lot.
Um, so the size of the scale of our organization, just in merchandising
means that you can't even send a total merchandising, uh, communication email.
So you need to get the word out.
It's not through that.
What else are you going to use?
Um, so it's, it comes down to a lot of word of mouth.
It comes down to a lot of trust coming from the merchants.
Um, even if you send out a mass communication email, you could be in
the wrong quarter of planning for them to even look at your e-commerce space.
So they don't care at that point.
And then they forget about it.
And then you need to send something else out again.
Um, so a lot of it does come down to like, we'll do departmental strategy.
So we'll go, Hey, we've got 55 departments.
Uh, it's a lot of meetings, but if we can group some of them
together, we can make a joint.
And then we'll do maybe an hour, hour and a half demo of how you'd
actually use the tool, what's coming up next and then the feedback session.
Uh, just some type of deep dive with them.
Um, and then every quarter, like I said, there, there's the
monthly, um, demo from the merchant side.
Uh, that's the, that's the larger format one where they, where all
departments are invited to come.
They're not forced to come.
Uh, but yeah, it's just calendar management.
Um, being able to say no to certain tasks because you're going to have 300 people.
Ask you about something.
Cause you're a SME, um, and then communications and communications
is almost always the hardest part.
Um, especially if somebody gets ahold of your data asset and starts
making, uh, somewhat the same tool as you.
So then you have to fight for merchants using one tool or the other.
So.
Thank you.
That's really helpful.
Um, a followup question that came through about that is how do
you decide what to say no to?
Uh, business prioritization.
Uh, so since I work on the business side, I don't really operate like tech.
It's not, um, like we kind of prioritize our own impact based on.
Current versus long-term strategy.
Like if we, if we just decided that we were going to move inventory
from all of our fulfillment centers to the store, for some reason, then we
would need to focus on that first.
The business impact is there.
If we feel like we don't have the bandwidth right now, we have to turn it down and try
to see if somebody else can support it.
Um, otherwise, if we think that it trumped something that we're currently doing,
we'll put one or two people on it, kick it out real fast, as fast as possible, and
then go back to focusing on something else.
But it always just comes down to like what we think is the most important
at that time, which is a very generic answer.
Um, you've got like, um, I don't know.
It's not even based on dollar impact.
It's maybe you have a data asset that you think is going to be more
valuable in the longterm.
You've got to work on it now, uh, because in next month, if you don't have it by
next month, it's going to be a year before the merchants even come back to it again.
So it's, it really does come down to like timeline planning.
Um, especially at the store side.
Thank you, Alexander.
I see you just put a question into the chat.
You want to jump in?
Um, yeah, sure.
Um, I don't have my camera on.
Hi everybody.
I'm Alex.
Um, I just wanted to ask, you know, all these apps you create seem really great.
And I'm like, honestly, it seems like a lot of work too.
Um, so I'm on a pretty small team of data scientists or kind of aspiring data
scientists, but I'm not a data scientist.
Um, a lot of us have more of a research background and we're kind of starting to
do a little bit more collaborative coding.
Um, but I have found that process to be pretty challenging even with GitHub.
So I'm curious if you, if a lot of this work you're doing, are you working with
a team of people on programming?
And if so, how do you kind of manage the different pieces of putting
together, um, these applications?
Yeah, I think that's a really good question.
Um, yeah, so the, the first app I ever built at Walmart was actually in the tax
group, um, and it was full lone wolf.
There was no one else on that project.
I talked to somebody else on the business side about the current access database
that they were using just so I could port it all over and just strip it from the
ground up.
Um, so that was, that was full lone wolf.
Um, I love building it just cause I like the whole process of every part of data.
Uh, then now we're working more collaboratively.
So actually I had, uh, the privilege of, uh, getting my, uh, old classmate
hired onto our team directly.
Uh, me and him just worked side by side.
We both did our masters.
We both built our first shiny app together in our master's program.
Um, and so he's a lot more back in focus.
Uh, he's a lot better at optimization.
Um, I'm a lot better at, I guess like design UX and reactivity and shot inside
of shiny, uh, as well as like a little bit more like on the business side.
And so we just try to divvy up things that we feel like, um, we can split out,
like I'll build one shiny module and then he'll work on the backend.
And then by the time he's done with the backend, I can pull the table in, modify
just the things that I need instead of shiny.
And then that's the full process.
Um, we don't do a lot of collaborative things where like he's going into my
module specifically while I'm working on it.
Uh, and then you have to deal with the GitHub, like merge and make
sure everything actually lines up.
Um, so we try to dedicate this page is mine.
I'm just going to, I'm going to do that.
You can give me insights on this page, but I'm going to just own this one.
And then that's always going to be my module.
And then we'll document all of the responsibilities of the
data flow inside of, um, we use confluence.
Uh, and then from there, we just always know who's working and owning what.
Well, that's great.
And I really liked how you bring up the point of like identifying each other's
strengths, um, and, um, using that to kind of prioritize who can help with what.
So thanks.
That's actually really helpful feedback.
Yeah, I will say on the data science side, um, we used to have a merchant
data science group specific to merchandising that is now upstream.
And they're no longer like a pillar.
They're horizontal across all of tech technically.
Um, but working with them was also a different thing.
Like they did also handle most of the, they handle all of the modeling,
some of the data engineering process, but in the end, all I
really needed was their stage table.
So, um, they give me a, they give me a stage table.
I put inside the Shiny app.
I collect feedback for their predictions.
I send it back to another stage table for them so they can retrain on inside of BigQuery.
Um, and then once again, we keep most of our stuff separated.
Um, I have some testing scripts to make sure that whenever their final output is
overwritten or they append to it, that all the stuff actually checks, uh, so
that I don't have to go look at it.
But that's, that's really all it is, is, is testing other people's stuff.
If you don't own it and then also testing your own stuff and making sure you own it.
So.
Thank you.
Um, Javier, I see you asked a question too, if you want to ask that.
Yeah, sure.
Thanks.
And allocate nice to finally put a face to a name.
Yeah.
Alec and I have had like a LinkedIn, our Shiny specific
relationship the last few years.
So anyway, um, the, you know, I, I know you know this, but, uh, most of my
career was in financial modeling.
And so in financial reporting, um, the last few years being more specific in
data science, I haven't really been working for finance, you know, as a
function, although I team with them often.
Um, and I guess my question to you is I I've noticed a trend where as more and
more viewers get access to an app, there seems to be more and more appetite for.
Finance wanting metrics to align to the official record or the official reports.
And it's like, I understand why that is important.
Um, but for certain operations or sales teams, you know, they're wanting to kind
of splice and dice the data in a way that may not reconcile a hundred percent to
finance, I'm just curious if you've like run into this and maybe how you've pushed
back or kind of gotten around this kind of, you know, hurdle, I guess.
Uh, we got lucky.
Um, so Walmart organically has decided that finance and merchandising will
have different reporting structures.
So finance has its own hierarchy for reporting, uh, its sales and figures,
and then merchandising has its own hierarchy.
And so we got, we got really lucky for that, but the way that we kind of, that
use case came about was that, um, on the finance side, they actually have to
attribute, uh, we sell things on the app, uh, from the store.
So it's e-com based, but store fulfilled finance has to say everything
is for coming from the store.
You credit the store for it.
Merchandising.
We want to show that, oh, well, our assortment was actually app
initiated through the customer.
We're customer based, not finance based.
So all of our reporting goes somewhere else.
And then we actually, we have different, uh, channel reporting.
So we, we don't even report the same types of channels that they do.
Um, we, we finally got like fully separated from that in the end,
that question still does come up.
Like finance is going to come back and say, Hey, uh, we see that
you're reporting a market share.
You know, we're, we're trying to report on true market share.
How does this kind of differ?
Well, when I report on market share, it's based on 29 retailers.
I don't, I have sample based retailer knowledge.
These are insights we're predicting they won't ever tie out.
And we just have to put forward that use case upfront so that if they do ever
come with more questions, they already know the issue that, you know, obviously
is that like on our side finances also thousands of people.
Uh, and so how do you know, how do you make finance know about all of that?
And so I've, I've been trying to create, um, more in app documentation as to what
the scope of the app is going to be now and forever, kind of like an FAQ or
something, so I, uh, uh, BS four dash is making that pretty easy now, since
there's the extra nav bar, uh, the secondary sidebar that you can like the
right sidebar or I think it has a new name now.
Yeah.
The control bar control bar.
Control bar comes out.
There's a learning hub pill.
And I do, uh, purpose, um, uh, video, like full into in video of using the
application, uh, and then the scope and stuff, they're frequently asked
questions, whatever else you can do.
Um, and then if anybody ever needs anything, go there, learn it.
You can come ask me afterwards, but I'm just, I'm going to point them there
first, if they haven't looked at it.
So.
Thank you.
That helps.
Yep.
Thank you.
I see Parth asked in the chat, what are the best techniques that optimize the
shiny app while dealing with this huge amount of data?
Uh, so once again, I'm lucky, uh, because of RStudio Connect.
So we have a massive server behind it with a high
availability and auto scaling.
So that, that typically takes care of concurrency for the most part.
Um, database pool also keeps connections alive for everybody to have
pretty seamless experience of connections coming on and off, which
doesn't overload our GCP project.
Um, our queries, we, we, since we stage a lot of our data upfront that we do
need, um, we make sure it's super targeted, everything's a star schema.
If we can make it otherwise it's filtered specific to a merchant's hierarchy.
So queries are really quick.
Uh, I think the longest query that we actually have running in a production
app today takes eight to nine seconds.
Um, and so we, we don't deal with query concurrency too terribly.
Um, most of the time, whenever people are making that nine second query, it's
going to pull them back hundreds of thousands of items.
Um, so they're going to be looking at that view for a long time.
They're not going to be going to another thing.
Um, I think it depends on your use case.
So, uh, one issue we've seen is if you need to make, um, like
large input sheet submissions.
So what we like to do is, um, there's our hands on table package.
If we require like 20 inputs or something for, for whatever reason, it's really
easy to just record them there.
Uh, but if you got 3000 merchants doing a different, different type of query, where
it's actually submitting back to the database rather than pulling, uh, that's
a different, that's, it's totally different.
You have to handle it differently.
Um, and so there, there has been some challenges with that.
I'm still working around what the best practices for that.
I use BQ upload, a BQ upload from the bigger query package for a
really fast upload into our table.
Um, and then we just try to make sure we partition and cluster anything possible,
uh, just to make all of our tables run really fast.
So, um, it's, it's a lot of thought.
It's a lot of design and upfront, like, Hey, what can we do to reduce this
data scale because it's never going to fit in the app if we don't.
Uh, but eventually we get a small enough that our stuff's targeted.
So.
Okay.
I've been trying to find the packages and put them in the chat as you mentioned
them, but I couldn't find that BQ upload one.
Oh, it's just, it's just from Hadley's.
Yeah.
It's from Hadley's bigger query package.
Okay.
Um, so on the topic of finance, I know you have a previous background in
and I'm curious how that has helped in your role and your analytics role now.
Um, I think the accounting principles don't really help me at all anymore.
It's more of the fact of like, whenever I was digging for accounting and tax
data in the tax department, it exposed me to all of Walmart.
So if I was an audit, we get audited on everything and every state auditor,
every local auditor wants to edit our audit Walmart, because if you can even
get 1% of that audit as an error, you're going to get a lot of money from us.
Um, and so we would be digging.
I would just dig and dig and dig and dig all the time through audit principles
that way, uh, learned all of the tables.
And then whenever I came over to merchandising, it was super easy.
I'd, I'd already been exposed to most of the tables that we would use in the
first place for sales, um, profits, uh, any type of item availability, uh,
discounts are a big one, um, exempt purchases.
So I knew how to pull those out, uh, up front and that makes my analysis cleaner.
So just understanding like what you would and wouldn't record, uh, through sales
or whatever industry it may be.
Um, it just makes a lot of my analysis cleaner up front.
So I don't, I don't have to ask merchants later on, uh, if the data's right.
And then them tell me I didn't deduct discounts.
So, um, I typically think about a lot of those concepts, uh, beforehand.
Awesome.
And just a reminder, if anyone wants to ask a question, feel free to just
raise your hand on zoom as well.
Let's see.
Do we have any other questions over on Slido?
Um, I'm, I can ask questions.
I'm, I'm curious.
Are there people that have started to want to like learn data science now that
they've seen some of the apps that you've created?
Yeah, we're actually putting together a different work stream for a PSC where
we're trying to actually, we're trying to get an intern to do most of the
templating of the shiny app up front.
Um, now that we do have a pretty good structure for BS4 dash, it's really
simple just to give them a couple of things.
She has, she has experience in R before, and this just gives her another 10 to 13
weeks during her internship to learn more.
Um, I think it's really cool once you already have an app like ROM out there
where there's true business impact and showing what it can do, people are
excited and they want to get into it anyways.
Um, so like I said, on our team, we do have a lot of R skills and we've
grown that a little bit organically through our hiring.
Um, so we've got five to six people that are willing to jump in and do R, maybe
not shiny right now, but getting into Markdown and from Markdown, you get into
Flex Dashboard and then Flex Dashboard, you get into shiny, so there's, there's
kind of a roadmap into getting into that.
And in the meantime, they're still building out pipelines and, uh, data
skills that they need for shiny.
Um, there's, there's been different groups wanting to get on our
connect server for deployment.
Uh, so that's cool.
Um, plus, uh, the tax still is maintaining, uh, some of my apps from a couple of
years ago, uh, that I'd given them.
So it kind of forces them to be inside of our shiny.
So, uh, we've, that gives exposure to some of our development teams since
they're maintaining it in a central source.
Uh, and even then they've enjoyed actually tweaking old apps and stuff that I've had.
Uh, so it's, it's just exposure all around to different, different groups.
Awesome.
And I mean, in such a big company too, how do you let people know, like what's
possible, like, oh, that you could use this RStudio instance?
Like, do you have a, a group, like a team's channel or something?
Yeah, we've got a, we've got a team's channel.
It's really only for people that have the licenses right now.
Um, but most of it does come through demos.
And, uh, what I like to do now is I'll show ROM and then show them the business
case and be like, Hey, this is what I've built today, but here's BS4 dash.
There's like a, there's a showcase example or something that, uh, the guy
has a live shiny app up on, and you can click through all the components.
It's literally just like a testing module of everything in BS4 dash.
I'm like, Hey, this is what we have today.
And then here's everything available that I've not even touched yet that we could
do with any other shiny app.
So like social boxes or timelines or stuff that I haven't even incorporated.
And so that, that gives a lot of people, um, like a spinning
wheel in their creative space.
And they think about the problems that they have and go, Oh, wow.
Like the visually, I now understand how I could tie something together like that.
It is possible.
I've seen it technically be done.
Uh, thank you, Javier.
That's, that's the perfect, if you want to run that function, you can
actually see what I'm talking about.
He's got the get hub out there.
I control F I search for whatever component it is, and it's
now going to go in my shiny app.
So, um, it's, it's pretty easy just to walk people through.
Here's what we've done and actually has worked.
Here's something we could do.
And then people just start throwing out ideas for you to work on.
That's great.
And those demos, that's just with different teams across the business.
Or, yeah, that's great.
That's just with different teams across the business.
Uh, yeah, it depends on who it is.
Um, like if it's, if it's on our side, which is like merchant operations and
innovation, uh, that'll be more for maybe design teams or central platforms
that my work will eventually go into.
Or, um, if it's something that I need to do, it's features that people are
requesting from the merchant side that, Hey, is this available?
Is this possible?
I can show them one way it's possible.
Do you like that?
Yes or no?
And if they say yes, then I can start working on it.
If not, I'll just start exploring and seeing if I can find another
example and show it to them.
Um, but I try to make sure I always give them some type of visual along
with some fake data upfront, because people like to change their minds
once they see data involves.
Yeah.
Um, I'm, I'm curious for people listening in it is Walmart hiring now,
or do you have any open analytics roles?
Yeah, there's a, I know that we're going to be hiring, uh, soon on our team for
a role, I believe it's the same level as me, there'll be a senior manager to
role, um, but I think it's specific to apparel innovation, I'm not sure
exactly what it'd be, but it'd be, it'd be really product-based, uh, maybe
even more central application, central platform-based, I don't know what
the requirement is on that yet, but all across Walmart, we're hiring.
I think there's currently like 40,000 job listings out there for all over the
country, um, and we're getting a lot better about remote work.
Uh, so we're finally actually saying, Hey, we're not even gonna worry about
the hubs now, as long as you're close to a hub, fine, and hub being like,
uh, San Bruno, California, Dallas, Texas, Bendville, Arkansas, Hoboken,
New Jersey, New York, I forget where else it is, but, uh, we're saying like,
as long as you're within a certain, like, I think it's like 300 or something
miles that would be okay with you so that you can always go into a hub if
needed, um, just fly in or whatever.
Um, but yeah, there's, there's a lot of things that are out there.
It's hard for me to comment on just cause there's so much, but if you have
a job rec, uh, you can send it to me on LinkedIn, uh, I can actually see who
the hiring manager is, uh, and see like what type of organization it'd be for.
And I can try to help people if y'all, if y'all find something you're looking for.
That's great.
And I'll share your LinkedIn in the chat there too.
Um, but Zach, I see you had a question.
Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, sure.
Uh, Hey, um, I, I know that we had actually talked about this like a while
ago, um, but, uh, we talked about like production applications and the split
between basically like software engineering and data science.
And I was curious if you could just expand on that, like what
does that split look like today?
Are you learning anything fun?
Uh, interesting.
Yeah.
So the, so in my case, I guess it depends on when you draw the line for production.
So like the audit tracker that's inside of tax, it's been up for two and a half
years now, and I'd almost call it production at this point, even though
it was supposed to just be an MVP.
Uh, my work, I still call an MVP, uh, for the shiny application, because as I
give the business what it needs right now, we push stuff up into the systems.
And then eventually once the systems are ready, that's when we'll actually
bring the full, um, central platform with rest of market ported into it.
And so I'll give a lot of my learnings over at that point.
And that's when we'll go into like true software engineering and production
systems.
Uh, but in the meantime, they're building other stuff.
I'm building something that NIST, uh, gives people what they need.
Um, and then we'll do a transfer later on.
What is the, I guess like the collaboration model look like?
Um, so how do you, how do you essentially like transfer whatever you built to
basically someone that's going to recode it?
Uh, yeah.
So the, it depends on like how big the project is like an analysis.
Um, I did something called, uh, unproductive SKUs where we're just
checking in an item level if something's productive or not.
Um, and with that, it was as simple as just sharing a SQL query, giving them
some sources, some understanding as to why the logic's there, uh, and then
showing them from a UI side, how they could actually make it flexible.
And that was it.
Rest of markets can be a whole different beast because there's so many components
to it.
Um, but I'm really just going to show them the flow that we're going for what
merchants like and don't like, because I'll have a ton of feedback from merchants
about, Hey, maybe they hate the app right now.
Um, and then I can give those learnings over as a UI UX design, workflow, uh,
data sources, and then hopefully just be able to point them to source
systems to build their stuff out.
And so by the time we get there, that's really all it should be.
They shouldn't even really need much of my SQL at that point.
Sure.
Thanks.
Nice seeing you.
Okay.
Nice to see you too, dude.
Thanks, Alec.
I know we're right at the top of the hour, but just a quick question.
When you say MVP, is that minimum viable?
Okay.
My head always goes to like most valuable player.
Well, thank you all so much for joining and thank you so much, Alec, for sharing
your experience and getting to learn from you.
Um, I love being able to hear all your shiny stories on LinkedIn too.
I shared your, I shared your LinkedIn in the chat too.
So if anybody wants to connect or has follow-up questions too.
Sweet.
Thanks everybody.
Thanks for the time.
Thanks all.
Have a great rest of the day.
Bye.